# DESCRIPTION file: extract fields

Extract information from an R package's DESCRIPTION file.

## Usage

``` r
description_extract(
  desc_file = NULL,
  refs = NULL,
  fields = c("owner", "repo", "authors"),
  names_only = TRUE,
  add_html = FALSE,
  as_datatable = FALSE,
  nThread = 1,
  verbose = TRUE,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- desc_file:

  When `owner` or `repo` are NULL, these arguments are inferred from the
  *DESCRIPTION* file.

- refs:

  Reference for one or more GitHub repository in owner/repo format
  (e.g.`"neurogenomics/rworkflows"`), or an R package name (e.g.
  `"rworkflows"`).

- fields:

  Fields to extract.

- names_only:

  Only return author names (and not other subfields). For example: "Jim
  Hester \\james.f.hester\\gmail.com\\ \\aut\\" would become "Jim
  Hester".

- add_html:

  Add HTML styling to certain fields (e.g "authors").

- as_datatable:

  Convert the results into a
  [data.table](https://rdrr.io/pkg/data.table/man/data.table.html).

- nThread:

  Number of threads to parallelize queries/downloads across.

- verbose:

  Print messages.

- ...:

  Arguments passed on to
  [`rworkflows::get_description`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/rworkflows/man/get_description.html)

  `paths`

  :   Paths to *DESCRIPTION* file(s) R package(s).

  `db`

  :   A [data.table](https://rdrr.io/pkg/data.table/man/data.table.html)
      of R package metadata generated by
      [biocPkgList](https://rdrr.io/pkg/BiocPkgTools/man/biocPkgList.html).

  `cache_dir`

  :   Directory where to cache downloaded files.

  `force_new`

  :   Ignore cached files and re-download them instead.

  `use_wd`

  :   Search the local working directory (and the one above it) for
      *DESCRIPTION* files.

  `use_repos`

  :   Use R standard R package repositories like CRAN and Bioc to find
      *DESCRIPTION* files.

  `repo`

  :   `character(1)` The requested Bioconductor repository. The default
      is to pull from the "BioCsoft" repository. Possible repositories
      include "BioCsoft", "BioCexp", "BioCworkflows", "BioCann", and
      "CRAN". Note that not all repos are available for all versions,
      particularly older versions.

## Value

A named list or
[data.table](https://rdrr.io/pkg/data.table/man/data.table.html).

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
res <- description_extract(refs="RajLabMSSM/echolocatoR")
} # }
```
